well loop then it's a very important
concept
in sweeps that instruct structures
and also the classes and the inheritance
i think if you have already learned
other programming language for you
then for python you must be very
familiar with the classes
that is a very powerful tool to help you
finish a complex task and
and last i will introduce the
collections that can help you to
store data for example we can use the
array or dictionaries to help us to
store our data and also would
be convenient for us to access this data
okay let's go to the first part the
functions
uh if we want to define a function we
can use the keyword func func
follow with the name of the function and
and after that we have a bracket inside
the bracket
we can write the input data of
our function and inside the curly
bracket you can write the behaviors or
the actions you want this
actually want to complete this is a very
simple example of function in this
example we don't have any input
parameter um when we call this function
we just
implement the the body inside this
function we just
print one member um for function there
are
generally two parts the first part is
you need to define a function
this is the definition of this function
if you want to use it you need to call
this function
you need to write the name of this
function and because this function don't
have
input parameters so we just write
an empty brackets this is to call this
function
if we call it then it will implement
some
actions inside this function
but generally we will have input
parameter for function for example for
this function we have
one parameter value and
you need to indicate the data type of
the
input parameter here
the data type is in and inside
this function we define
a operation we want to get some
three times of the input value so we
use three to multiply our input data and
get our result and here
this in this example we have more than
one input parameter we have two
parameters
the first number and also second number
we also indicate
uh the data type of these two input
parameters
and here we define an operation that is
called multiply
we want to get the result of
the multiply results of these two
numbers so we define
the operation here actually this is
uh one task you need to finish in your
segment one because
in the calculator there are some basic
operations for example
multiply the what divides plus
or minus and this is one of the
four basic operations multiply and
you need and list two
you need at least the two input data
and you define the operation between
them
and after we define an up
function sometimes we want to get the
results
when we call this
function because you see in this
i can see in this function we only get
the result inside the function
but how could we get the result
outside this function then we can
define the written value for function
we can define our return value
use this format we use arrow and also
you need to indicate some
data type of the output value and then
you define the output value the value is
just
equal to the result of the
multiplication between
the first number and second number then
you return this value
and after then you call this function
and this function will give you
this result and here we can see
we call this function because it has two
input parameters so
when we call this function we need to
give this two
uh input parameters where we need to
assign these two parameters of value
so this is our first number and this is
our second number and this line will
call the function we define defined just
now
and then we assign this because
when we call this function it will
return value
it will return of this value the result
then we as i assign this value to
a new defined constant then we
can get this result and we can use this
result
outside the function and for example we
want to
display it in our calculator
screen or we want to use this
value to do the next calculation and
we need the return to help us to get the
result of the function calculation
okay let's this is the function
um further for this lecture
of and also for any other programming
language
i view i think the best way is you just
need to
master the basic um
basic syntax syntax of
basic example of this uh very important
um concept within a function loop you
don't
you don't need or it's impossible to um
do all the exercise to see or practice
all the different examples what you need
to do is you need to
implement or remember two or reveal
good examples then what you should do is
you can learn um
solve more complex
scenarios during the practice
during the process of doing tasks so you
and the very beginning you just need to
know the basic
uh syntax of all the all this
uh the functions the loops all the
structures
and that can help you to understand the
basic codes
okay let's go to math bars
and the next part i want to introduce
the control flow
in swift actually in last lecture we
have introduced the two basic
way we can control the flow in our codes
the first one is if else and the other
one
is with speech and
today i want to introduce the other type
of
the other way we can do the
control the first one is the for loop
and the other is well
for the for loop we have a keyword four
and we have index and also
because it's a loop we need to give a
range here we give some numbers
we start from 1 and
end and 5 and then
the index will go through or will
travels all the numbers in this
range and for each time it will
implement the
codes the behaviors
inside this curly bracket
so at the very beginning the index will
get the first number in the range
your index will equal to 1 and then it
will implement this print
command and also because index is equal
to 1
and we can um this part view
is will be replaced by the number uh
the value of the index by one and for
the first time
and the index will get the second number
in this range
and it will repeat file time because it
will
transverse all the numbers in this range
sometimes we don't need if we don't need
the value of the index appears
in our uh command in our codes
we can just omit this
index value using our underscore
and because every time we just uh what
we want to do is just
traverse all the numbers in this range
and do the print function inside
this um inside this four
um and that's inside this for loop
except the numbers to represent
uh the range we also use other ways for
example
this is a ring later we will have more
detail about the ring
the ring in this array we have we can
you can
include many components here we have
three strings and
what we want to do is we want to print
the three names in this array so we
set a for loop and this is our index
and the names defined here
is our range because this is a ring so
every time
the index the name will get value in
this
ring and then put then
and do this print function and
the second time it will also get the
second
uh element in this array this is
another example of for loop except the
numbers
the arrange we also can use
the the string to represent the range
for this example for each time the index
index letter you get one character
you get one letter in this string
and each time it will implement
some print function inside the for loop
okay and also
in the last example this is a screen
because
for each letter you can get the
content of the letter but sometimes we
also want to get
the order of the index of this
letter so if we use
this method because this is
actually we can call it as a property
for each property we can have many
measures
if we call this method enumerate
we can the result is a temple
and the temple in this temple weekend we
can get two values
the first value is index and
that's represent the location of this
letter
for swift um the index is always start
from zero
so for the first letter its index is
zero
and for the second lecture the index
is um one then this is two
also we can guess the content
in the letter in the position
so if we want if we use
this one to represent our range
it will return a tempo and for this
we can get the index and also
uh the letter
so we can use both of these two uh
value in our um for loop
remember here i want to print
first i print the index of the letter
and then i
print the content of this letter
this is one method and also um
you can do the eye size of the class
because this
is a string you can find out what
kind of other method we can use for
screen
here we can use the enumerate we can get
the index and the content inside the
string but
for other methods for the string
whether we can add two string together
and
whether we can delete or insert
part of the uh string to uh
whether we can add one a new part to a
string or we want
if we want to remove a part of the
string
what we can do what functions or what
measure we can use okay just now we
showed you uh to use the numbers
string and also a ring to represent the
range
uh in a for loop and here
is another example we use uh we define a
dictionary
later you should more um detail about
the dictionary
and also because in addition
in the dictionary for each component it
has two parts the first one is
key and the the value corresponding
to the key so
you also could do the for loop
in a dictionary to represent
each pairs of value in this dictionary
because in a for loop that means you
need to
um iterate all the values in the range
but sometimes
in a loop if you want to control
something for example
if there you can set condition if some
condition is satisfied you want
this loop is stopped or you can want to
define some other actions you can use if
the if condition to control your for
loop
and also there are other some other
transfer statements you can use in a
for loop here i gave you an example of
the break
and also you you can use continue or
return
i provide you a link and where you can
find more detail
on how to use the control transfer
statement
so please figure out more examples
of the control transfer statement
for the for loops
okay next part is the while loop except
the for loop
um if you don't have a range you just
have some conditions you want to
charge if we have a condition
if this condition is satisfied then i
will do something
in this case we want to use a while loop
now this is a format for while loop
first you need to have condition you
need to and judge whether this condition
is satisfied or not
if it is satisfied means this
uh this condition is true
then you can implement these statements
for example in this um
in this example we set to variable the
first variable is
number of lives we said is the value
e of this variable is 3 and also we set
a bool
or variable and reset the value is true
and for this while loop because initial
value for still alive
is true so that means we can reset
this condition is true that we can
implement all the uh commands
inside the well the well loop
it will improve it print something and
also it will
uh do some operation for the
uh do some operation on the number of
lives because
uh in the initial the initial value of
still lives
is true if we don't change this
value that means this loop
will running all the time because if we
don't change the
value of step line it will always be
true then it will
run again and again won't stop so
inside this um while loop you need to
change
set some conditions to change the value
of still
alive to make it false in this case
because it's false and you want to write
it again
this is a while loop please remember
inside the while loop
to set some conditions change the um
the condition after the valve to make
sure
it and this well look at this well loop
can stop
okay
okay let's go to the next part
and i saw there are some questions and
in the chat box i will answer you
later or in our channel because
the content of today is a little um
we have a little
many content today and i want to go
through this
because they are you may you might
use them um during your assignment one
and i just want to first familiar with
the
uh syntax of this swift programming
language
okay the first next part i want to
introduce instructors
what is routers in structure you can
um first if you want to define structure
you can use the
keyword struct and the structure is
quite
like a class inside structure you can
define some properties
the properties are generally generally
are some
variables or constants and also you can
define
some functions and that is called
measures
and this is a very simple example for
a struct here i define a struct
the struct name is person and inside
this route i define
two variable because i think for person
and it has some it has
the basic two properties
the first one is name and second one is
sh
uh sorry uh during my lecture uh i hope
you can mute yourself because
maybe there will be some noise
okay let's continue this is how to
define
struct
for struct and
we can access the properties
in a structure for example after we
define
this structure use a keyword struct
and we can uh actually this process
is called in the uh instantiate
extension instantiation and then this is
instance of this structure and
we assign this structure to a constant
and this is for example maybe i call it
person one
and then i can get all the properties
defined in this structure i can call the
name
and yeah because i just define name
inside the structure so i
can i use the dot
to access the property name
in this structure let's get
that's the other example
inside a structure except some except
the properties
and the property is defined using the
variables we also can
define um some func functions
and this function is just like what we
introduced
this is just a
general or simple function and this
function the name of this function
is a hello and there is no input
parameter this is
just a simple example and we just print
something
inside this is inside the function and
inside this the function
we also want to access
the value of the uh properties
or the variables we defined above this
function
and so in this structure
we have one property one variable name
with the name of name and also
one simple function and after
we uh instantiate this
structure we give it to
a constant named person and then we can
access just now we show the example or
access the variables
inside structure now we also could
access
and the functions we defined in this
structure
and i think in because in the lecture we
don't have
a solution time to um typing of
code in swift but what i suggest you to
do is
what you can do is you can just copy
this code
to the swift art class but there is one
thing you need to notice that
um the format may be a little different
because
this is not in a code format in in the
powerpoint
or in the pdf and what you the format
may be
um you may be um get some warning
um because all the blank space um
is different with uh swift then you need
to just
adjust the format of the code or there
if
of if your code is exactly with
um my example but there are still some
errors i suggest you to
just type this code manually just
not copy them because when you copy them
maybe there are some blanket blank space
or some format you should make your code
doesn't work well so i
highly recommend you to practice all the
examples
i provide in the lecture
and if you encounter any example or
issues you can
leave your message in the channel and i
will figure out
the solution for you and i think there
should be
it will be okay because i have tried or
how i agree i have
except such examples sometimes i didn't
define
um some bodies inside the function and
there isn't any meaning inside function
so you can't run it
and for either case you can join these
examples in your script
okay let's go to next slides
also a structure and this actually this
process is what i called
what i introduced just now and
instantial
instantiation and that means i want to
because this is a predefined structure
and i want to assign it
to a specific case for example
my shirt is suitable to
use can you use this structure because
my shirt
has size and also has color
and also your shirt i can
define your shirt and also use this
structure
and for my case i my size
is xl and the color is blue and for your
shirt
uh the size is um and also is
the color is red actually this this
process
is called initialization because when
you
want to use this structure and
inside the structure when you define
them
you only give us a data type but you
didn't give a value
and you want if you want to in and
instantiate this
structure you need to give the you need
to
initial initialize the value of these
two
uh variables this is called
initialization
and later i will explain more about
initialization about other structure
and this process is called instead
in instance like an instantialization
because i said two instances
based on these structures okay
and the next part is when we create the
instance
based on structures because in this
structure
we have variables we have different
functions for example
inside this structure and i define
three variables and also
four functions and inside
function i didn't write anything but you
can write
something if you want to run it because
inside the function
you need to write the body of your
function for example you want to print
something or you want to implement
some actions here of for
just the first simple example i didn't
write anything i just
use ellipses to
omit some actions i want to
define this function and here this is a
structure
after i create two instance of this
structure this is my first instance
the first the first car and also i give
the initial value to the three variables
i defined in structure and this is my
second
instance and also i give soon
two variables the initial values
and for this two instance i can access
all the functions i defined in
this uh structure freedom of here i
start
oh i will start i'm starting my energy
and um and here if i
uh i could instance and i access this
function then it will implement the
codes the command defined in this
function
for example just now i said i want to
print something
and here it will print
content you defined inside this function
and try this after class
and this is the short structure we can
create the constant we can create the
instance
and call the measures and also
calls properties
the properties of the variables
and this is initialization and
in our previous example for the
structures
i only define the data type
for the variables also inside when you
define a structure
for for the variable you can give it an
initialization
for example here i assign the value
0 to this variable and the one i
create of instance this
instance is odometer and i create the
instance
and in this instance i can just like
what i said i can access
the properties the variables defined
inside
structures so after i call
the property the variable i can get
this value then if i print this value i
can get 0.
and after you create a
instance based on the structure and
even you have initialized
the variables inside structure you also
could
reset reassign a value
to this variable after you instantiate
this value and this structure for
example
i create a structure
accurate instance based on the
structural odometer
and now i want to re-set
the initializing the initial value
of this of this variable
count and i want to initiate this
um value with
uh 2 7 000 instead of zero
so i will change the value
of this variable just on my instance
and uh if you print this value
it will print this this new value
and i have a question here if i said
another instance
and in that instance i just
set it like this way
but i put i
for example
if i set another example change the name
odometer 1 and i
call this structure and also
if i um want to access the value of
the count so what is the
result is that 202
7000 of the initial value you can think
about that and
try it
another thing i want to mention is
the member the member wise initializer
because in just in the previous example
we initialize the variable inside
structure
and there is only one variable but
in this structure here are two variables
and the one we create the instance based
on the structure
we can do the member-wise initialization
actually says um also the name of this
step
is a little complex but it's very simple
it will just
ask you to assign assign a value to each
of the variable
defined inside the scratcher if you want
to use
it remember here i want to use this
struct
structure i defined to help me
so to help me to
create a constant my shirt
and then you need to uh assign a value
on the
initial value to each of the variable
not sorry here is no variable the two
constant
i defined here and this is called
memberwise initializer
initialization because i assign a value
to
each of the constant i defined in this
structure and
okay here is another example of the
member wires
and i define two instance and for each
instance
i assign a value to the
three constants and this is called
initialization
and the initialization is different
because actually we define two constants
and for the two different constants
and the two con the two
inside properties inside constant
are different
okay the next part i want to introduce
the custom
in naturalization um
this is structure i want i create
in the very beginning and inside it
there is
one variable is called celsus
and and we know that
also we can use the previous method we
give it a value we do the initialization
and
create a constant sorry recruit or
instance
and we know that
food temperature we can use different
unit
measurement to describe a temperature
we can use the celsius we can use a
kelvin
and also we can use a very high value to
present the temperature to describe the
temperature
so if in this case we only know the
value
of fahrenheit but also we know the
relation between the celsius and the
fahrenheit so if we want to use a
structure
we need to know the value of the cell so
that means
we need to do some calculation we need
to
calculate the value of cell source based
on the given value of file hat
then if we after that we get this value
then we can use this
structure because for this router
it requires us to give the value of
celsius if we want to use it
so is there any other way uh
for us to include this calculation
process
inside this structure that means um
if i know the values of fahrenheit
and then i just um input this value
to this structure and then i can use
this structure
and this is how this
is what we do we write the init function
inside structure
here at the very beginning we define a
variable
uh like what we did just now
but here we define a function named
init and then in this function
if our input is celsus we just
give this input celsius
to our inside
defined cells and uh
because in order to distinguish
this this one and this one because this
is
the input value from outside
and this is the variable we defined
inside the structure and so we add
one a self to represent the one
we defined in sets inside the structure
if uh from out from outside we can have
our cells input this
um structure then okay
we will initialize this value just
like it equal to the input value
but if from outside we just
get the value of the very height then
the cell source
we will calculate the celsius based on
this formula because we know the
relation between these two
um measurements
and so these celsius will be calculated
and and now we don't use a self because
inside this function we only have
one celsius and there is no ambiguous
and we are clearly know that this
celsius
is the one we define here
and so we just use celsius instead
of the self uh celsius and later i will
give you more example of
when we should use self and the one we
shouldn't
here example we add some
complex process inside the structure
to initialize our variable and
now because we have already um
give this value inside of our structure
so when we
create a instance based on this
structure temperature like what i said
if
i have the value i can just have the
celsius value i can just um
use it as input parameter oh if
i have the fahrenheit value i also could
use
it as a input from an input
parameter because inside it i have
already
uh have the process convert
the fair high at the fair height to the
value of celsius
this is another way of the
inertialization
and this is another example i don't want
to go to too many details of it
because like what i said except the
celsius the
fahrenheit we also can use the kelvin
and to present to describe the
temperature
so this example just uh
sets three initialization function and
in this case v and
in which case if we have a celsius
or fire height fahrenheit or the kelvin
we
all could use this structure and
and you can see we can
and if we have any of these values we
can
use this router because we have defined
all the
transformation way to other
measurement inside the structure you can
read and
implement this inside after this class
okay and this is another
way of inertialization here i defined
two variable the first one is also
celsius but
the very high fairy height i don't
uh set is in image function address the
set is
also as a variable but this variables
the value of this variable
can be get using a written
statement in this written statement
i just write how to calculate
the fairy height based on the celsius
and this is another way to set the
initialization for the variables
you can um in this case
uh what is the benefit of using such
initialization because also i can set
two variables one is celsius and
one is fahrenheit but why i want to use
it i need to input two data right but
there if
there if there is some relation between
from a certain relation between these
two variables
if i know one value then the other value
is fixed
in this case i can use this format
i can just use one input
variable and the other i can calculate
based on the certain relation
between the other variable okay there
this is another initialization
okay let's go to the next part
have defined some properties some
variables inside function
and inside the structure just now in our
function i didn't define
any meaning and meaningful
behaviors inside structure but here
inside this function i define of
i defined behavior and the behavior is
based on
this behavior and this behavior will use
the variable i defined
in this structure so inside this
function
in the structure you can use all the
variables you defined in the structure
and there is one thing please notice
that in a structure
when you define a variable
defined variable and
outside the structure if you create an
instance
of this structure you can change the
value of the variables
outside structure but you are not
allowed
to change the value of the variables
inside the structure this means once
you have defined a variable and give it
an initial value
inside the structure of example you have
function and the function will use this
variable
and you can't change this value of a
variable but in some cases you really
do need to change the value of this
variable
we can use this measure you can use them
you you can define this function but
before this function you need to add a
keyword
mutating this means okay i want to say
some note that i will
change the value of the variables i def
i defined
inside the structure for example here in
defined odometer because we know that
with increase or time odometer the
values in the diameter
will increase so the initial value is
zero and we define some functions one
is increment and i
want the value of the count will be
increased
and i need to add this keyword
mutating please notice that only if
you want to change the value of the
variable or constant
inside structure you can
you are required to use mutating
and if outside the
structure and you define instance you
are afraid to turn the values
but you can't change the values inside
the structure
on the functions you also defined inside
it
okay this is the self
like what i said just now if there
will be a very unclear definition inside
structure
there will be um figures between
the variables you need itself to
distinguish them for example in this
example i define a variable and
i also define a variable description
like what i said there is a
relationship also this relationship
maybe not some mathematical relationship
just i want to this is a string and i
want to
print a sentence and this sentence will
contain
some will contain the
variable i defined just now i also could
use
this format to define the other variable
and here i write this is
i write the self color but you can think
about whether this
itself is necessary or not because self
is just
used to this and to eliminate
the unclearly and maybe
the confused in your code
actually in the last example we don't
need the cells because
inside the structure we only have one
variable
called color and the one and here
one we want to access the value inside
this variable the color
we just use the name of this variable
and there is no
um no fuzzy no confusion
but in this example
uh in our text and temperature example
and we define our celsius and also we
define
a in innate uh function
for this function we have a input
value input parameter this input
parameter we also call it
celsus in this case
if we have input variable input
parameter celsius
and we want to assign this
value to our inside defined
cell source variable and we need to add
itself
to this celsius to distinguish
them because this one is the one we
defined here
and this one is our input
parameters and we can get
from outside when we create an instance
so just the one rule one principle
if there is and there if there is
confusion
for you to distinguish these parameters
you need to add the self
for the one inside you create inside the
structure
okay this is structure uh the next one i
want to introduce is classes
and i know the uh i think the time may
be not
um enough for me to go through all the
content but i also want to
finish all the content today uh like
what i said
uh if you have uh classes um
after 11 you can just leave this room
and i have recording
our i have recorded our lecture and you
can review the
next parts because i just want to
i just want you to master as much as
possible
before you start your assignment one and
i because i didn't give however
the tutor didn't follow my instruction
to
get a quick view of the template but i
have told him
uh if you need to
explain the template in the
lab tomorrow so i hope you could
familiar that before you start
assignment one and get all the related
knowledge
before your homework okay
the next part is classes unlike what i
said if you have learned
other programming language you must
very familiar with the classes because
if you want to
finish a very complex task except
especially there are some sub tasks for
example in our assignments
actually we have some sub tasks
we need to define the multiply the
divides the
plus the minus and also
some other complex operations and
all this can be actually can be packaged
together
and here class is a very good way
to help us to package all the
functions or properties that are related
with each other
and how to define class
the way is
exactly the same with the
defining process or structure we just
replaced the keyword scratcher with
class
and here we can see we define class and
the name of this class is person also we
define
a constant the constant is name
and we give an initial
function to this
variable name and also we define a
function inside this class
about the how to access the property how
to assess
variables and how to access a function
defined
in the class that is exactly the same
with
structure you just create a you just
create an instance
um based on the class then you use the
dot
to access the variables you can change
the variables
um or you can access the functions
and here i for example here i create
instance named person
based on this class and
because i it requires me to initialize
the variable name so i give it a value
just me and i can access
this variable the same format and also i
can access
the functions defined inside the class
are exactly the same structure so you
can just
go back to the structure part
to see how to initialize this class
how to access or change the value
inside science structures that's exactly
the same
and the foreign part i want to focus on
the inheritance
first inheritance before i introduce
this
i want you to um familiar three concepts
the first one is base class
and what is called base class if you
create a class
and this class don't have any relation
between
other class this is just a single class
and then it calls a base class and you
can't see any
inherent inheritance relationship
between other class then this
is called base class and for the other
concept the super class and the subclass
this is a pair of concepts
and if there is a relation
if there is a heritage for example
uh euclid class the
uh the class a is a heritage from
class b then a is called subclass and
b is called superclass but this
concept is a relative concept for
example
a is hair change from b then b is subcla
the a subclass right and also we could
create a a new class
c inheritance from a
then in this case a is super class
and c is subclass so it's definitely
just the focus on one case
and you just to see
this class is heritage from which one
then the bigger class
you not bigger the um the super class
inheritance
the class you inheritance is called
super class
uh maybe i should just show you example
you will be you will be more
uh clear about this and this is
a class and this class is recalled
and i defined two variable one is
current speed and the
the other variable is description and
this because
the description is just
a string and we'll use
the curry current space so i
write it in this way i have explained
why we could do this
and also i define a function in the
stick function
make noise i didn't write anything
inside the
function and this class because in this
class we
can't see any inheritance relation
between other class
so this is called a base class and we
can
create cons instance and for this class
and we can call the
properties the variables in this class
and based on this class
we can create some other class this is a
format
of using the inheritance to create
subclass and we also use the keyword
class
and this is the name of the subclass
and this is the name of superclass this
means
we create a subclass and this subclass
will inherit inheritance from this
superclass
what means inheritance it will get all
the things
defined in this superclass because
for example here i create a subclass
bicycle
this bicycle subclass is
inheritance from the super class we call
you still remember
in the vehicle in the vehicles class we
have defined two variables
if you can't remember just the return to
the last slide
the first the first variable is
current speed and another variable is
the description and
we also define a function right in that
case
because this subclass is inheritance
from the previous from the super super
class so that means
this subclass the bicycle have
could access or have
all the things defined in the we call it
has
the it has two variables the
current speed and the description and
also
the functions make noise
besides this this sub
class could also define some new things
just belong to itself here i define a
new variable
named has basket and the value as the
initial value i set
is false so for this subclass besides
the value
beside the constant i have in the
superclass vehicle vehicle
and also i have a new variable
this is some what sub class can be can
do
it can heritage all the things from the
sub from the super class and also it can
define new things that's just
that and then and the new things just
belong to the
the subclass because i define these
variables of functions inside this
subclass
and okay let's continue the inheritance
and here we create a new subclass
named bicycle and i define a new
variable
and for this new variable
for this new subclass unlike the
um like other class
they all could uh create instance
based on the class so i create a new
instance
based on the new subclass i created just
now
and because this property has basket is
just created inside this so i could
access it and also change the value
because the bicycle this
surplus is a heritage inheritance
inheritance
from the recall so i also could access
a variable that is defined in a super
class
and i could access and also change the
value
and also i could access the variable
description that is defined in the super
class because this is
a subclass this is
uh how to define a subclass based on a
super class
and how to um how to access the
content defined in the super class
and this is another example um
like what i said here is my sub class
also this is a class right also
also it's a subclass but it's a class i
could set a subclass
inheritant from this one
here i set a new
class a subclass tangent
and this one is inheritance
from this bicycle so
at this moment the ten what can you can
have
it has the
all the functions and properties
we defined in the vehicles class
and those of variables we defined for
the
bicycle that means it will has all the
things
that concludes that
is include that is contained in the
bicycle
and also it can define some new
properties or functions that
is just belong to the tangent so
actually this
process is exactly the same
with this one this example just to show
that okay
even the the bicycle is a
subclass we defined here
inheritance from the vehicle it's also a
class
we treat it it
has all the basic uh
method of functions as a class
and we could build subclass
based on this one and so there are many
levels right
and but just remember for each level
relation
the relevant relation is fixed the
relevant relation exactly the same and
for this
for here and we create another class
and also we create instance
based on this new class and
this is the variable we do remember this
is variable we built inside the bicycle
and so we can change its value and uh
this is a new variable we defined inside
the the tandem so we can access it and
the current
speed this is the
uh variable we defined in the vehicle
because because this one is inherited
from this one and the bicycle is
inherited
from the vehicle so we can access that
we can access this variable the
currently speed and also we can
access the description this institution
also
inheritance sub superclass and subclass
just really and remember that in a
heritage relationship we can
the subclass could access all the things
defined inside the super class
and this is all right because
sometimes in the new defined subclass
and also we can access the functions
inside the superclass right but
maybe the function is not suitable for
our subclass in this case
we can rewrite we can always write
the functions in the superclass for
example here
i create some class string
based on the vco class
and in the vehicle class we have a
function named
uh make noise but to remember in that
function we didn't
we didn't define anything but here
we override this function
and this uh in this function with this
we define some new content we want to
print something this means this function
okay if we don't have
this line we could access because train
is
inheritance from the vehicle we could
access the functioning noise
but the function we could access exactly
the same
with the one we defined in the
superclass and we call part here
if we have this line we rewrite
we override this function and in this in
this string class
this function we will use this
this uh function the print command
instant of the old one and
for example we is the instantialization
of this class we set the tree
and when we access the function of this
class
of this string make noise it will use
this function because we have
rewrite we have overwrite this function
inside this class and we don't use the
old one
this is override if we want to change
something in the super class but
but please remember this over uh
right function is only active under
this chain subclass
in the super class we call steal
the old function make noise view still
an active function because this
only is active
inside this class
okay except the method we could also
override some other things for example
here i give example to override
the variables because if a car
is inherited from the weaker class
we can access the description right the
description
is to print something but here
we want to rewrite the variable
description
and here we just
replace the old value with this one in
the silver description
actually this represents the
value of description in the super class
that means the new value of description
is built based on the combination of all
the values
and adding adding some new
strings but we also want to access the
old values in the super class
so we just use simple dots description
to access
the variables defined in the super class
this is override you can
so when you create a subclass you can
inheritance
all the things from the super class you
can access
the variables and functions and also
because
this is a new class a new subclass is
need to fit the new scenarios the
variables the properties
and all the functions may be changed
so in this case in the when you create
the subclass you can use the overwrite
to create or define new uh
or to change the variables or the
functions you defined in the super class
but but
this um rewrites only active only you
only meaningful inside
this super class
uh also we can override the initialize
analyzation inside the class
uh this part this is
for example this is a base class the
best class is named person
and we have a constant name and also we
initialize uh the name reason
with the output value for the when we
create
a con when we create an instance of this
class we need to give it a name
then this name will be assigned to the
inside uh defined name
we use self to distinguish these two
different names
and if we create a subclass we create
subclass
subject as a student and
here we add one uh
variable named favorite subject and then
we also
need to set initialization sub uh
function for this subject what we are
doing
for the first subject we used outweigh
we just
need a input in parameter to set the
initialization measure
initialization value for this variable
favorite subject
but for the name we want to
use the exactly the same
initialization way we use
in the sense in the super class
so that means if i change the
initialization way in the super class
there will here will also change
i just want to keep the same
initialization way i defined in the
super class
so i use this super that means i
i want to use the the scenes defined in
the super class
the super initial int this is
initialization method of the function i
define here i just
use this way to initialize my name
so actually in this initialization
i define a new inner inner
initialization for my new
variable because this this variable it
only appears in my
subclass and i need to um
do the initialization because
here it doesn't include this variable
but for the old one for the old
uh variable i have in the subclass i
just want exactly the same
initialization way i have in my subclass
this is
how to operate some initialization
you know in uh when you create a
subclass okay um now i want to summarize
something
inside and for the class and when create
a
instance or class swift's returned
address of that instance and the return
address is signed
to the variable and that means
when you assign the address or instance
to multiple variables
each variable contains the same address
update one instance and all variables
refer to the updated instance what does
that mean
i mean let me show you example this is a
class i quit
named person and it has two uh
has one constant name and has a variable
uh age and i said initialization mean
a function to initialize these two uh
variables name and h and now i
set one instance and the instance i
named is jack and the jack i
also give the uh initial uh
lization value to these two uh when it's
variable when it's constant
jag and the h is 20 24
and after that i assign the value this
variable to another new variable
and now my friend is
it has all the content the java has
and what is cloud like what uh we
learned in the last slide is that
although i define two variables two
instance both of the variables
has one address i only have one address
this means if i change the value
uh here i change the value of the
variable
for the check i changed the jax h
but because they these two variables
my friend and jack has the same
address also here i just changed the age
of jack
but my friend has the same address
with jack so what is the age of my
friend
because they have the same address als i
change
this value i change this value and my
friend
its value are also changed you can
try this other class to see whether
these two values are same
or not this is class but cons
but structure is different this is
exactly the same
code but i just use struct
and yeah
there's also one thing i want to mention
in the outline also i
list that the first quiz is
scheduled on this week in the
lab but i think uh maybe
it's better to um because i i can
uh tell you some content of the quiz
will include all the
all the content we delivered in the
lecture and the lab
and it we it will include
some basic knowledge of sweeps including
the constant
variable class struct structure
so i think maybe it will uh
you haven't prepared a view if you just
learned
this concept this since on monday and i
have the quiz on tuesday
so i will um
reschedule the quiz one on next week
uh on the on next
tuesday so you have one week to familiar
all the concepts
of this basic knowledge of sleep then
you can do your quiz
the first quiz about this thing okay
let's continue this is the difference
between structure and
so i haven't explained this right and
this is a structure
we uh create a structure and it's uh
the codes part is exactly the same with
the class required just now
and but we use the keyword structure to
create a structure
and here we create two constants
the first one is jack and second one is
my friend
exactly the same and here i but for
um for for the class the instance
has the same address but the concrete
but the structure is quite different
they don't
they just create two different instances
and they have different
memories they have different address
that means
if i change the value the value of the
variable
for one constant it won't have
any impact on my other instance
although they are creates based on one
structure
but because they have two different
address
so i change one action the value
for one variable it doesn't have any
impact on my other instance you can try
that and
see the difference this is structure and
this is
class for the scheduling of the
quiz i later i will send announcement to
make sure all students can get this
uh message i will schedule the quiz
in the for the next uh last week during
the lab and
in for today's uh
lecture and we will go through all the
knowledge you will use in your
assignment one and also
for tomorrow's lab i will ask the tutor
and to
help you do more exercise especially uh
to understand and familiar with our
template for assignment one
okay sometimes then you will ask when i
because class and squash are quite
similar especially for the
properties of functions you can define
inside the class and structure
then you will ask when should i use
class and when should i use
structure and when you um
here are some principles you can follow
for example
uh if you want to create a new type you
can use structure but
for some case if your formal work
has some class it's better to have class
and also
because um i think the biggest
difference between class
and the structure is the class has
inheritance so we
that is a very powerful tool we can use
so you can use inheritance and
if you create a class and also
if you want to uh
if you want to have some uh multiple the
uh hierarchical level of your classes
you want to
um don't repeat
uh this work for example you have
defined some variables and inside
other class you want to use you use
these classes you can
just define class instance or structure
because
the inheritance function can help you to
save a lot of time
okay this is structure and the class
and that is very important and
i think now you have we have learned the
loop the structure and the class
and i think this you can finish your
assignment one
and for some tasks
we always need to store our data
and swift provide us many different
ways to store our data and also we can
accept
data inside these collections
here i would just want to introduce two
collections the first one
is a ring and the other one is
dictionary
first how to define we use a
square on brackets to define a read
and you can just write your array inside
this uh square bracket
and use comma to separate different
elements
and this is a ring we defined
and the element of this e of this uh
inside the ring are some strings and
also we can define some members
and here we just gives a
ring and also we can define the
we can indicate the data type
we need in we require in the ring here
this is a string and this is a int
when you define a ring like the
constant or variable we can also just
indicate the data type and don't add
don't assign any value to this ring we
can use
this three way to
define our arraign and
point out the data type but didn't give
any element in the inside a dream but
there are three different ways but for
you i see i rarely
i recommend you to just remember one
there is no need to
remember all the ways you can just
remember the simple is the one
this array and you need to point out the
data type
because for ring we need a square
bracket
so for the data type we also need a
square bracket
to embed
the uh data type this is
one way to create a ring and here i show
some examples
and for a ring we also could do some
operations for example we can accessing
the
element inside the ring and also
because the index from the index
inch width is start from very often so
for the first element the index is zero
and the second one gary the index is
um the index
is one
yeah i think this is not right right
because
oh sorry uh it's my mistake after this
this part it just assigns the first
element
here i accept the first uh component any
and assign this this string the ending
to
this constant to this constant so the
first name is any
and then is to resetting
assign a new value to this
uh to this component i reassign
the previous value for uh rene
names one is gary but now i want to
re assign the value a new name
paul to the
uh names to the
to the second name in names yeah
okay uh later here i show some other
uh examples how to a padding how to
inserting removing
and i rise very clearly called here
you can i i don't i just don't exact
and explain them one by one you can
practice this
after class how to remove the components
inside a ring and how to append one
and how to insert one okay the next part
is dictionary
this is how to create a dictionary
we need we also use the square
square bracket and insights for each
inside the dictionary the data are the
data is paired
by pairs first you need a key and for
this king
it corresponds to a value and like this
example
for the recharge this is the king and
this is a value correspond to the king
and our second key
is look because we have the
corresponding relation between the key
and value
so for in a dictionary all the
all these pairs is unordered that means
we can't
use uh don't it doesn't like the array
we don't use
index to access the dictionary we can't
this doesn't mean in this one we need to
access the values using the key
this is the key for example if we want
to access this value
then we need to indicate okay
the value we want to get the king of the
value
is returned and then we want to get
the value corresponding to this king and
also we need to
indicate this key to get this value
here are some examples and
also we can do many operations on these
dictionaries for example adding
modifying removing and here we just
set a new value
not certain value because this kin we
don't have this key
in our dictionary so this line means we
add a new
uh component in our dictionary the king
is
oil and the value is 399
and also we can here is
to reset the value for recharge
this new to to represent 500
and also we can do some other operations
with temple
uh we can get access uh just
the keys inside the the kings in the
dictionary or the values in the
dictionary
or we can get the um both the king
and the values and here are some
examples you can try them up
class okay this is all the component
this
is all the content i want to deliver
this class okay yeah
thank you very much and uh and
later i will say the announcement about
the
rescheduling of our quiz one for next
week so
the main task of this week is familiar
all the content i delivered
during the class and tomorrow in the lab
follows guides
of the tutor to practice or
uh i think if you still have time today
you can
try to practice all the examples i pride
in the slide
if you have any questions you can ask
the tutor in the lab tomorrow
and okay this is all the content of
today
thank you
also if you have any questions while you
implement all this
uh exercise you can just
post your question in the channel
[Music]
you